Docs for HTTP Client errors OkHttp (#5651)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/android/configuration/integrations/okhttp.mdx

  .addInterceptor(new SentryOkHttpInterceptor(new CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build();
```

> ## HTTP Client errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## HTTP Client Errors
```

> HTTP Client errors such as bad response code are captured as error events and reported to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.

Reviewer: Trying to avoid repetition. Should "bad response code" be in code font? Is it the actual error message you'd get?

```suggestion
HTTP client errors, like bad response code, are captured as error events and reported to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data, such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.
```

> HTTP client errors, like bad response code, are captured as error events and reported to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data, such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.

Reviewer 2: `m`: I think we could be more explicit to explain that this feature captures these errors automatically.
```suggestion
This feature, once enabled, automatically captures HTTP client errors, like bad response codes, as error events and reports them to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data, such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.
```

This feature is opt-in and can be enabled by setting the `captureFailedRequests` option to `true`:

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(captureFailedRequests = true))
  .build()
```

> Only HTTP client errors with a response code between `500` and `599` are captured as error events, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestStatusCodes` option:

Reviewer 2: `m`: A bit clearer IMO
```suggestion
By default, only HTTP client errors with a response code between `500` and `599` are captured as error events, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestStatusCodes` option:
```

> Only HTTP Client errors with the response code between `500` and `599` are captured as error events, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestStatusCodes` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only HTTP client errors with a response code between `500` and `599` are captured as error events, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestStatusCodes` option:
```

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.HttpStatusCodeRange

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(
    captureFailedRequests = true,
    failedRequestStatusCodes = listOf(HttpStatusCodeRange(400, 599))))
  .build()
```

> HTTP Client errors from every target (`.*` Regular expression) will be automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option either with a Regular expression or a plain `String`, in the case of a plain string, contains at least one of the items from the list. Plain strings do not have to be full matches, meaning the URL of a request is matched when it contains a string provided through the option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP client errors from every target (`.*` regular expression) are automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option with either a regular expression or a plain `String`. In the case of a plain string, it must contain at least one of the items from the list. Plain strings do not have to be full matches, meaning the URL of a request is matched when it contains a string provided through the option.
```

> HTTP client errors from every target (`.*` regular expression) are automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option with either a regular expression or a plain `String`. In the case of a plain string, it must contain at least one of the items from the list. Plain strings do not have to be full matches, meaning the URL of a request is matched when it contains a string provided through the option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP client errors from every target (`.*` regular expression) are automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option with either a regular expression or a plain `String`. A plain string must contain at least one of the items from the list. Plain strings don't have to be full matches, meaning the URL of a request is matched when it contains a string provided through the option.
```

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.HttpStatusCodeRange

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(
    captureFailedRequests = true,
    failedRequestTargets = listOf("myapi.com")))
  .build()
```

> By default, error events won't contain any PII data such as `Headers` and `Cookies`, but you can change this behavior by setting the `sendDefaultPii` option to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, error events won't contain any PII data such as `Headers` and `Cookies`, but you can change this behavior by setting the `sendDefaultPii` option to `true`:
```

> By default, error events won't contain any PII data such as `Headers` and `Cookies`, but you can change this behavior by setting the `sendDefaultPii` option to `true`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, error events won't contain any PII data, such as `Headers` and `Cookies`, but you can change this behavior by setting the `sendDefaultPii` option to `true`:
```

```xml {filename:AndroidManifest.xml}
<application>
  <meta-data android:name="io.sentry.send-default-pii" android:value="true" />
</application>
```

> Those events can be searchable and alertable with the `http.url` and `http.status_code` properties, learn more about it in the [Searchable Properties](/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/) docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Those events are searchable and you can set alerts on them if you use the `http.url` and `http.status_code` properties. Learn more in our full [Searchable Properties](/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/) documentation.
```

> ### Customize or drop the error event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize or Drop the Error Event
```

> For that, you need to do a [Manual Initialization](/platforms/android/configuration/manual-init/) of the Sentry Android SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that, you need to do a [manual initialization](/platforms/android/configuration/manual-init/) of the Sentry Android SDK.
```

> For that, you need to do a [manual initialization](/platforms/android/configuration/manual-init/) of the Sentry Android SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize or drop the error event, you need to do a [manual initialization](/platforms/android/configuration/manual-init/) of the Sentry Android SDK.
```

The captured error event can be customized or dropped with a `BeforeSendCallback`:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.android.core.SentryAndroid
import io.sentry.SentryOptions.BeforeSendCallback
import okhttp3.Request
import okhttp3.Response
import io.sentry.TypeCheckHint.OKHTTP_REQUEST
import io.sentry.TypeCheckHint.OKHTTP_RESPONSE

SentryAndroid.init(this) { options ->
  // Add a callback that will be used before the event is sent to Sentry.
  // With this callback, you can modify the event or, when returning null, also discard the event.
  options.beforeSend = BeforeSendCallback { event, hint ->
    val request = hint.getAs(OKHTTP_REQUEST, Request::class.java)
    val response = hint.getAs(OKHTTP_RESPONSE, Response::class.java)

    // customize or drop the event
    event
  }
}
```

> ### Automatically captured HTTP Client errors and manually captured errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Automatically Captured HTTP Client Errors and Manually Captured Errors
```

> When `captureFailedRequests` is enabled, be aware that some HTTP Client libraries throw Unchecked exceptions such as `retrofit2.HttpException`, in this case, the error event will be captured twice, once by the HTTP Client library and once by the Sentry Android SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `captureFailedRequests` is enabled, some HTTP client libraries throw unchecked exceptions like `retrofit2.HttpException`. In this case, the error event is captured twice; once by the HTTP client library and once by the Sentry Android SDK:
```

```kotlin
import io.sentry.Sentry
import retrofit2.HttpException

try {
  // If this API call returns 500, it will be captured as an error event by the `SentryOkHttpInterceptor`.
  return GithubAPI.service.listReposAsync("getsentry")
} catch (e: HttpException) {
  // Do not manually capture this exception to avoid duplicated error events.
  // Sentry.captureException(e)
}
```

> The recommendation is to identify those errors and to __not__ capture them manually with the `Sentry.captureException` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend you identify those errors and  __not__ capture them manually with the `Sentry.captureException` method.
```

> We recommend you identify those errors and  __not__ capture them manually with the `Sentry.captureException` method.

Reviewer 2: Thank you for pointing out this likely scenario and how to fix it 👏

  .addInterceptor(new SentryOkHttpInterceptor(new CustomBeforeSpanCallback()))
  .build();
```

## HTTP Client errors

HTTP Client errors such as bad response code are captured as error events and reported to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.

This feature is opt-in and can be enabled by setting the `captureFailedRequests` option to `true`:

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(captureFailedRequests = true))
  .build()
```

Only HTTP Client errors with the response code between `500` and `599` are captured as error events, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestStatusCodes` option.

```kotlin
import okhttp3.OkHttpClient
import io.sentry.android.okhttp.SentryOkHttpInterceptor
import io.sentry.HttpStatusCodeRange

private val client = OkHttpClient.Builder()
  .addInterceptor(SentryOkHttpInterceptor(
    captureFailedRequests = true,
    failedRequestStatusCodes = listOf(HttpStatusCodeRange(400, 599))))
  .build()
```

> HTTP Client errors from every target (`.*` Regular expression) will be automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option either with a `String.contains` value or a Regular expression.

Reviewer 3: > either with a `String.contains` value

I'm a bit unclear what this means. Can we rephrase it? Does it mean we can pass a plain string, which will be checked with `String.contains`? Should we just use regular expressions and thats it, since it can also be achieved via regex?

Author: RFC states both, so we don't change that.
I can try to rephrase it.

### Customize or drop the error event

For that, you need to do a [Manual Initialization](/platforms/android/configuration/manual-init/) of the Sentry Android SDK.

The captured error event can be customized or dropped with a `BeforeSendCallback`:

```kotlin
import io.sentry.android.core.SentryAndroid
import io.sentry.SentryOptions.BeforeSendCallback
import okhttp3.Request
import okhttp3.Response
import io.sentry.TypeCheckHint.OKHTTP_REQUEST
import io.sentry.TypeCheckHint.OKHTTP_RESPONSE

SentryAndroid.init(this) { options ->
  // Add a callback that will be used before the event is sent to Sentry.
  // With this callback, you can modify the event or, when returning null, also discard the event.
  options.beforeSend = BeforeSendCallback { event, hint ->
    val request = hint.getAs(OKHTTP_REQUEST, Request::class.java)
    val response = hint.getAs(OKHTTP_RESPONSE, Response::class.java)

    // customize or drop the event
    event
  }
}
```

### Automatically captured HTTP Client errors and manually captured errors

> When `captureFailedRequests` is enabled, be aware that some HTTP Client libraries throw Unchecked exceptions such as `retrofit2.HttpException`, in this case, the error event will be captured twice, once by the HTTP Client library and once by the Sentry Android SDK.

Reviewer 3: Maybe a small code snippet would help here to understand what is meant exactly

Author: Makes sense, added.
